India is a land of various cultures and a rich heritage. It is the seventh-largest country by area and the second-most populous country globally. The peacock is India’s national bird, and the Bengal tiger is the country’s national animal. The national song is named Vande Matram (written by Bankimchandra Chatterji). The Indian national song was first performed at the Indian National Congress in 1896. ‘Jana Gana Mana,’ India’s national anthem, is sung in 52 seconds. The national flag of India is named Tiranga, which is made up of three colours: saffron, white, and green, with the Ashoka Chakra in navy blue in the centre.India is a beautiful land with a variety of wildlife and rich cultural diversity. The Bengal Tiger is considered the national animal of India. India celebrates its Independence Day on 15th August every year. It is observed to commemorate the freedom of India from the British. The tri-coloured national flag is called Tiranga, designed with saffron, white and green with the Ashok Chakra in navy blue at the centre of the flag. ‘Lion Capital of Ashoka’ is the country’s national emblem. The national motto is ‘Satyameva Jayate,’ which means truth alone wins.

In order to run the country smoothly, and make it an independent country, there was a need for a constitution which came into force on 26th January 1950. We observe this day as Republic Day every year.

India is a land of many different languages and many different religions such as Buddhism, Jainism, Islam, Hinduism, etc. There are various food styles and dressing styles depending on the regions of the country, setting the perfect example of Unity in Diversity.India is one of the strongest countries in the world. It is the seventh-largest country in the world area-wise and the second-most populous country in the world. India shares its borders with countries like Pakistan, Afghanistan, China, Nepal, Bhutan, Myanmar and Bangladesh. It also shares its borders with Sri Lanka and the Maldives. It is a secular and democratic country that respects all religions and the people of India have the liberty to practise any religion they want.

India believes in nonviolence and therefore, Mahatma Gandhi is known as the father of the Nation because of his non-violent contribution to the freedom movement of the country. The tri-coloured national flag is known as Tiranga which has the Ashoka Chakra at the centre. The national emblem of the country is the ‘Lion Capital of Ashoka’.

The Param Vir Chakra is India’s highest military decoration, given to those who have shown courage. Soldiers who put their lives on the line to safeguard residents are India’s heroes. Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, often known as Pandit Nehru or Chacha Nehru, was India’s first prime minister. India is a land of many festivals, different dressing styles, and different food styles. People of different castes, creeds, and colours also live peacefully in India, and this is how it sets a perfect example of ‘Unity in Diversity’.